Improve sample output type page (#439)
hubverse-org/hubDocs: docs/source/user-guide/sample-output-type.md

We will use the following `model_output` data to help solidify the concept of a modeling task. (The mean `output_type` is used for demonstration purposes due to its simplicity.)

| origin_date | horizon | location | output_type| output_type_id | value |
|:----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| 2024-03-15 | -1 | MA | mean | NA| - |
| 2024-03-15 |  0 | MA | mean | NA| - |
| 2024-03-15 |  1 | MA | mean | NA| - |

In the above table, the three task-id columns `origin_date`, `horizon`, and `location` uniquely define a modeling task in every row. Here, there are three modeling tasks (one for each row), represented by the tuples <br>

```
{origin_date: "2024-03-15", horizon: "-1", location: "MA"}
{origin_date: "2024-03-15", horizon: "0", location: "MA"}
{origin_date: "2024-03-15", horizon: "1", location: "MA"}
```

> In words, the first of these tuples (as well as the first row in the table above it) represents a forecast for one day (assume here the horizon is on the timescale of day) before the origin date of 2024-03-15 in Massachusetts.

Reviewer: Again, maybe you can say the first of these rows or lines.

Now, suppose we wanted to collect samples for each of the modeling tasks defined in the previous section. Then, we might end up with following data set, in which each block of three rows (denoted by a shared `compound_idx`[^1]) represents the sample output type forecasts for a particular modeling task. In this example, every modeling task (group) is treated as distinct.

[^1]: The `compound_idx` column is only used to denote rows that make forecasts for the same modeling task. It is not a task id variable, nor typically present in actual model output data.

|compound_idx| origin_date | horizon | location | output_type| output_type_id | value |
|:----------: |:----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | -1 | MA | sample | 0| - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | -1 | MA | sample | 1| - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | -1 | MA | sample | 2| - |
| 2 | 2024-03-15 | 0 | MA | sample | 3| - |
| 2 | 2024-03-15 | 0 | MA | sample | 4| - |
| 2 | 2024-03-15 | 0 | MA | sample | 5| - |
| 3 | 2024-03-15 | 1 | MA | sample | 6| - |
| 3 | 2024-03-15 | 1 | MA | sample | 7| - |
| 3 | 2024-03-15 | 1 | MA | sample | 8| - |

> 

Reviewer: Across all the tables, I would prefer to have some values included for the mean, to better illustrate the point. There is a date chosen, a horizon, and a location - couldn't example values be given for the mean, which could be compared with the first table to illustrate the point.

> 

Author: I went ahead and changed the numbering scheme

We will use the following `model_output` data to help solidify the concept of a modeling task. (The mean `output_type` is used for demonstration purposes due to its simplicity.)

| origin_date | horizon | location | output_type| output_type_id | value |
|:----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| 2024-03-15 |  1 | MA | mean | NA| - |
| 2024-03-15 |  2 | MA | mean | NA| - |
| 2024-03-15 |  3 | MA | mean | NA| - |

In this table, the task ID columns are `origin_date`, `horizon`, and `location`. There are three modeling tasks (one per row): horizon 1, horizon 2, and horizon 3—all for Massachusetts and origin date 2024-03-15. The first row, for example, represents a single slice of task ID space, a prediction for one week ahead in Massachusetts, resulting in one predicted value.

## Definitions of key terms

> 

Reviewer: Thanks for writing all these definitions, Li! I notice you use those curly bracket anchor links (e.g., `{#key-term-modeling-tasks}`). They're not consistent with the format I have used (`(key-term-modeling-tasks)=`), but I see they've been used in the developer guide and the dashboard documentation, so it seems fine. More importantly, I think they're unnecessary, unless you plan on linking to them at a later date. I would wait until then to create them, but that's just a suggestion.

> [modeling-tasks]{#key-term-modeling-tasks}

Reviewer: I don't think modeling tasks should have a hyphen. It isn't used in the modeling tasks section.

> : A definition of the goals of a modeling effort (i.e., what it is hoping to predict), possibly including conditions, assumptions, and task ID variables. Generally, they are defined by unique combinations of the task IDs.

Reviewer: It's great that you matched the definitions to what's in the terminology page!

[task IDs (AKA task ID variables, task ID columns)]{#key-term-task-ids}

> : Column(s) in model output that provide details about what is being predicted. These "task ID" columns may also include additional information, such as any conditions or assumptions used to generate the predictions. Common examples include `target`, `location`, `reference_date`, and `horizon`.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest moving the middle sentence about additional information to the end of this paragraph and maybe adding an additional example here, as I think this is taken from a scenario hub?

> [output type ID]{#key-term-output-type-id}

Reviewer: Here I think it would help to use the underscores (as you use them later), so that it matches the column name (i.e., "output_type_id").

> : A column in model output that specifies more identifying information specific to the output type. For samples, an integer or string providing a unique identifier for the sample. If one or more task IDs display of response dependence, rows of sample predictions from a particular model that share an output type ID may be assumed to represent a single sample from a joint distribution across multiple levels of the task ID variables.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the sentence that starts "If one or more ..."

> : A column in model output that specifies more identifying information specific to the output type. For samples, an integer or string providing a unique identifier for the sample. If one or more task IDs display of response dependence, rows of sample predictions from a particular model that share an output type ID may be assumed to represent a single sample from a joint distribution across multiple levels of the task ID variables.

Reviewer: Here is my attempt:
```suggestion
: A column in model output that specifies identifying information specific to the output type. For samples, an integer or string providing a unique identifier for the sample. This is important for instances when samples come from a joint distribution, so that some rows may not share all task ID values, but if they have the same `output-type_id`, they are presumed to represent a single sample from a joint distribution. Examples are given below.
```

[compound_idx]{#key-term-compound_idx}

> : A column used a visual aid to indicate which rows belong to the same group in the example model output on this page. In the marginal case, each group contains samples for one modeling task. The `compound_idx` column is not a task ID variable and is not typically present in actual model output data.

Reviewer 2: it's not just a "visual aid" right, it's actually like a specific identifer in this example? This is not clear from this point in the description.

Reviewer 2: it sort of feels like these definitions are coming sort of early in the description?

Author: 1. What do you mean by specific identifier? My understanding is that the compound index column is not a task ID, although I was not one of the people who created the example data

2. This section is meant as a sort of glossary-like section that people can refer back to. Some of the terms are defined later in the page, while others are from earlier pages in the documentation. I could move this section to the end but note its existence in one of the first few sections instead

Reviewer: I will chime in, only because I think I suggested Li make a glossary. Thank you, I think it's really good, but maybe my idea wasn't so good. The concepts are so complicated and convoluted that perhaps reading these definitions early on may confuse more than clarify. A case in point for me is the relationship between `compound_idx` and `output_type_id`. I think I only understood this when I read the examples and saw that the you can have various `output_type_id`s for a single `compound_idx`, but not the other way around. Maybe the glossary is just not a good idea. I always have to read these sentences various times to understand, but maybe that's the nature of the beast.

Author: I think that my final decision with this will be to remove the glossary, but perhaps create a footnote and/or link to a couple of terms that people might want refresher on that are not defined on the page earlier so people don't have to go hunting for term definitions elsewhere in the documentation

Reviewer 2: My point about the specific identifier is that the column 'compound_idx' doesn't seem merely as a "visual" thing, but the numbers are actually indexing different compound task ids, right?

Author: That's true, but I guess I was trying to get across the fact that the `compound_idx` isn't 1) a task id in any of the examples, 2) typically included in model output as a (task id) column, 3) or really necessary to include in model output to delineate compound tasks once you understand the concept behind the compound task id set.

Would you prefer that I remove the term "visual aid" from the definition? I'm also open to other suggestions to make this clearer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: A column used to indicate which rows belong to the same group in the example model output on this page. In the marginal case, each group contains samples for one modeling task. The `compound_idx` column is not a task ID variable and is not typically present in actual model output data.

```

> : A column used a visual aid to indicate which rows belong to the same group in the example model output on this page. In the marginal case, each group contains samples for one modeling task. The `compound_idx` column is not a task ID variable and is not typically present in actual model output data.

Reviewer: A separate comment - I find the use of "marginal" confusing at times, because it's used on its own (and the word has a couple of meanings). I would always say something like "in the case of a marginal distribution" or use some other qualifier (such as "sampled") to make it clear. This is what is done with "joint distributions", and it might help to contrast them early on?

[compound task ID set]{#key-term-compound-task-id-set}
: The collection of task IDs that remain constant within a group of jointly sampled modeling tasks. Any variables not included in the compound task ID set are assumed to be part of a multivariate outcome

[compound modeling task]{#key-term-compound-modeling-task}
: A group of related predictions defined by the compound task ID set. A single compound modeling task is defined by unique combinations of the task ID variables in the compound task ID set.

## Sampling modeling tasks

> While the mean output type produces a single predicted value per modeling task, the sample output type captures uncertainty by providing multiple possible values at each slice of task ID space. Each sample represents one possible outcome, and together, the collection of samples describes a distribution of predicted values.

Reviewer 2: I don't love the "slice of task ID space" language. It feels overly jargony.
```suggestion
While the mean output type produces a single predicted value per modeling task, the sample output type captures uncertainty by providing multiple possible values for each task. Each sample represents one possible outcome, and together, the collection of samples describes a distribution of predicted values.
```

> How modeling tasks relate to each other determines the structure of this distribution. When modeling tasks are treated independently, samples at each slice form a univariate (single-variable) distribution. When modeling tasks are grouped together, samples capture a multivariate (joint) distribution across the group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How modeling tasks relate to each other determines the structure of this distribution. When modeling tasks are treated independently, samples for each task form a univariate (single-variable) distribution. When modeling tasks are grouped together, samples capture a multivariate (joint) distribution across the group of tasks.
```

## Marginal distributions

In many settings, predictions will be made for individual modeling tasks, with no notion of modeling tasks being related to each other or collected into sets (for more on this, see the [compound modeling tasks section](#compound-modeling-tasks)). When predictions are assumed to be made for individual modeling tasks, every modeling task is treated as distinct. In mathematical terms, these samples represent draws from marginal predictive distributions.

> Now, suppose we wanted to collect samples for each of the modeling tasks defined in the previous section. The table below shows a dataset with three groups (indicated by `compound_idx`[^1] values 1, 2, and 3) and three samples per group. The `output_type_id` column contains sample indexes that are unique across an entire model output file, not just within each group, so each group has distinct sample indexes (1-3, 4-6, and 7-9 respectively). When sampling from marginal distributions, each group corresponds to a single modeling task, so all task ID values are identical within each group. Notice how each group represents samples for a single slice of task ID space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, suppose we wanted to collect samples for each of the modeling tasks defined in the previous section. The table below shows a dataset with three groups (indicated by `compound_idx`[^1] values 1, 2, and 3) and three samples per group. In this case, the only difference between the modeling tasks here are the horizon. The `output_type_id` column contains sample indexes that are unique across an entire model output file, not just within each group, so each group has distinct sample indexes (1-3, 4-6, and 7-9 respectively). When sampling from marginal distributions, each group corresponds to a single modeling task, so all task ID values are identical within each group. Notice how each group represents samples for a single modeling task.
```

[^1]: The `compound_idx` column is a visual aid to indicate which rows belong to the same group. In the marginal case shown here, each group contains samples for one modeling task. This column is not a task ID variable and is not typically present in actual model output data.

|compound_idx| origin_date | horizon | location | output_type| output_type_id | value |
|:----------: |:----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | 1 | MA | sample | 1| - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | 1 | MA | sample | 2| - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | 1 | MA | sample | 3| - |
| 2 | 2024-03-15 | 2 | MA | sample | 4| - |
| 2 | 2024-03-15 | 2 | MA | sample | 5| - |
| 2 | 2024-03-15 | 2 | MA | sample | 6| - |
| 3 | 2024-03-15 | 3 | MA | sample | 7| - |
| 3 | 2024-03-15 | 3 | MA | sample | 8| - |
| 3 | 2024-03-15 | 3 | MA | sample | 9| - |

> In this setting, a hub will specify a minimum and maximum number of required samples per group in the configuration for the prediction task. In the marginal case, each group corresponds to a single modeling task, but as we will see in the [compound modeling tasks section](#compound-modeling-tasks), a group can span multiple modeling tasks. The associated configuration might look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this setting, a hub will specify a minimum and maximum number of required samples per group in the configuration for the prediction task. In this "marginal" case, each group corresponds to a single modeling task, but as we will see in the [compound modeling tasks section](#compound-modeling-tasks), a group can span multiple modeling tasks. The associated configuration might look like:
```

}
```

In words, the above configuration specifies that  `"output_type_id_params"` samples are required, they must be integers, and there must be exactly (i.e., no more or less than) 3 samples per modeling task. The "value" specifications correspond to the values contained in the "value" column (e.g., they must be storable as numeric "double" format and be no less than zero).

> Note that the `output_type_id` parameters are specified in an `"output_type_id_params"` block because they are parameters defining the allowable values. For other output types, the `"output_type_id"` block is used to list required and optional values explicitly.

Reviewer: Personally, I would like a small chunk of sample code in the example above that shows what is contained in `"output_type_id"` and where it falls in the schema hierarchy. So, for instance show the `"properties"` of the mean.

(compound-modeling-tasks)=
## Compound modeling tasks

> In some settings, modeling hubs may wish to identify sets of modeling tasks that the hub will treat as related; for example, when multiple distinct values can be seen as representations of a single multivariate outcome of interest (i.e., forecasts originate from a joint predictive distribution). We use a subset of the task-id columns (the `"compound_taskid_set"`) to identify which variables do not display any dependence within or across their values. Any samples with the same output_type_id are assumed to to be a single sample from a joint distribution.

Author: What do you think of the changes Anna made to the language:

> In both cases, joint sampling introduces additional dimensions to the predictive distribution. Instead of a univariate distribution at each modeling task, we have a multivariate distribution spanning multiple modeling tasks. We refer to this as **response dependence** across the task IDs that vary within a group, because the predicted values (responses) for different modeling tasks are statistically dependent.
> 
> Within a group of jointly sampled modeling tasks, some task ID values remain constant (defining which group we're in), while others vary (defining the multiple modeling tasks covered by the joint distribution). The `"compound_taskid_set"` specifies which task IDs remain constant within a group. Task IDs not in this set vary within the group and are sampled jointly, introducing response dependence across those task IDs. A **compound modeling task** is thus a group of related predictions defined by the compound task ID set.

> In some settings, modeling hubs may wish to identify sets of modeling tasks that the hub will treat as related; for example, when multiple distinct values can be seen as representations of a single multivariate outcome of interest (i.e., forecasts originate from a joint predictive distribution). We use a subset of the task-id columns (the `"compound_taskid_set"`) to identify which variables do not display any dependence within or across their values. Any samples with the same output_type_id are assumed to to be a single sample from a joint distribution.

Reviewer: This is complicated, and so it will probably always be a bit hard to follow. I had to read the different versions twice to make sure I understood, and in all cases, I got it. By now, I'm not sure what is the clearest formulation, but both Anna and your approaches seem good to me, so I think you should decide what reads best. Thanks for asking.

> In some settings, modeling hubs may wish to identify sets of modeling tasks that the hub will treat as related; for example, when multiple distinct values can be seen as representations of a single multivariate outcome of interest (i.e., forecasts originate from a joint predictive distribution). We use a subset of the task-id columns (the `"compound_taskid_set"`) to identify which variables do not display any dependence within or across their values. Any samples with the same output_type_id are assumed to to be a single sample from a joint distribution.

Author: Thanks for your input! I've already accepted Anna's changes, so I'll go with her version

| 2024-03-15 | 7 | AA | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 7 | BB | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 7 | BB | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 7 | CC | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 7 | CC | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 7 | DD | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 7 | DD | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | AA | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | AA | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | BB | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | BB | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | CC | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | CC | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | DD | MA | sample | - | - |
| 2024-03-15 | 14 | DD | MA | sample | - | - |

[^2]: In the tabular data, an entry of "-" stands in for specific values to be provided by the submitter. They are not assumed to be identical.

Notice that this example submission file could be displaying predictions with any number of dependence structures (or none at all) since we are not given the `output_type_id` values or compound task-id set. The following subsection provides four possible combinations of compound modeling tasks that this tabular data may be representing.

> ### Examples of distinct compound modeling tasks

Reviewer: In general, these examples are very clear, but one general comment is that at the beginning I would say something like "different samples are distinguished from each other by using light grey and grey to highlight adjacent samples." This holds true for all examples, except Example A, where you would have to highlight all odd samples in grey (perhaps changing the css heatMap1 configuration).

> #### Example A: No task ids display dependence

Reviewer: Consistency - Task IDs

Sample `output_type` forecasts where **a single modeling task corresponds to a unique combination of `origin_date`, `location`, `horizon`, and `variant`**. There are no variables whose values display dependence.

```{code-block} json
:lineno-start: 1
:emphasize-lines: 6
"output_type_id_params": {
    "type": "character",
    "max_length": 6,
    "min_samples_per_task": 2,
    "max_samples_per_task": 2,
    "compound_taskid_set": ["origin_date", "location", "horizon", "variant"]
}
```

The table below displays a subset of a possible submission for the prediction task specified in the above schema. There are eight unique modeling tasks in this example, with two samples for each.

```{attention}

> Rows with the same `compound_idx` value indicate distinct sample forecasts made for the same compound forecast task. For example, in the table below, each pair of rows with the same `compound_idx` correspond to the same modeling task, but are each from one of sixteen distinct sample draws "s#".

Reviewer: - I find this phrase "one of sixteen distinct sample draws "s#"" confusing. I would phrase it as "but are each from distinct sample draws (e.g., `s0` and `s1` are two distinct sample draws for {origin_date: "2024-03-15", horizon: "7", location: "MA", variant: "AA"}).
- I am a little thrown off by the Python numbering, but if it makes sense for most modelers, that's fine.

More specifically, the `"output_type_id_params"` property specifies that sample `output_type_id`s must be integers, and there must be exactly (i.e., no more or less than) 3 samples per modeling task (group). The `"value"` specification refers to the predicted values contained in the "value" column (e.g., they must be storable as numeric "double" format and be no less than zero) and the `"is_required"` property specifies that samples are a required output type.

Note that samples use an `"output_type_id_params"` block to define allowable values through parameters (like min/max). Other output types use an `"output_type_id"` block that lists required and optional values explicitly. One example for the mean output type is shown below; more information and examples can be found on the [Hub configuration files page](hub-config.md#hub-model-task-configuration-tasks-json-file) in the `tasks.json` file section.

```{code-block} json
    "mean": {
        "output_type_id": {
            "required": null
        },
        "value": {
            "type": "double",
            "minimum": 0
        },
        "is_required": true
    }
```

(compound-modeling-tasks)=
## Compound modeling tasks

> In the previous section, we saw that when sampling from marginal distributions, each sample is drawn from a single modeling task (a single slice of task ID space). In some settings, however, modeling hubs may wish to capture relationships between modeling tasks by sampling from a joint distribution. This means drawing values for multiple modeling tasks at once as a coherent set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous section, we saw that when sampling from marginal distributions, each sample is drawn from a single modeling task. In some settings, however, modeling hubs may wish to capture relationships between modeling tasks by sampling from a joint distribution. This means drawing values for multiple modeling tasks at once as a coherent set.
```
If other people find the "slice" language to be helpful then I will defer. I mostly find it distracting when we have this other clear concept of a "modeling task" in place already. I think we should just use the clear term since we have one for it.

Author: I don't have much of an opinion on this particular wording, as Anna was the one who introduced it in her changes. I'm happy to defer to majority opinion from the others who have reviewed or edited this PR

Consider two common scenarios:
- **Trajectories over time**: A model might predict values across multiple time horizons as a coherent path. Rather than drawing each horizon's prediction independently, the model draws an entire trajectory, a sample from a joint distribution over horizons.

> - **Variant proportions**: A model predicting proportions of multiple disease variants might draw all variant proportions together, a sample from a joint distribution across variants.

Reviewer 2: We could consider adding locations as another (I think more intuitive) dimension in addition to trajectories over time. E.g., does a model simulate trajectories across space and time together? or for each location separately?

> In both cases, joint sampling introduces additional dimensions to the predictive distribution. Instead of a univariate distribution at each modeling task, we have a multivariate distribution spanning multiple modeling tasks. We refer to this as **response dependence** across the task IDs that vary within a group, because the predicted values (responses) for different modeling tasks are statistically dependent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both cases, joint sampling introduces additional dimensions to the predictive distribution. Instead of a univariate distribution at each modeling task, we have a multivariate distribution spanning multiple modeling tasks. We refer to this as **dependence** across the task IDs that vary within a group, because the predicted values for different modeling tasks are statistically dependent.
```

| 1 | 2024-03-15 | MA | 14 | CC | sample | s2 | - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | MA | 14 | DD | sample | s2 | - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | MA | 14 | AA | sample | s3 | - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | MA | 14 | BB | sample | s3 | - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | MA | 14 | CC | sample | s3 | - |
| 1 | 2024-03-15 | MA | 14 | DD | sample | s3 | - |

</div>

#### Example C: Horizon and variant dependence

Sample `output_type` where each compound modeling task corresponds to a combination of `origin_date` and `location`. Here, there is a single compound modeling task, which we can describe as **"Massachusetts with the `origin_date` of `2024-03-15`"**. Both `horizon` and `variant` display dependence.

```{code-block} json
:lineno-start: 1
:emphasize-lines: 6
"output_type_id_params": {
    "type": "character",
    "max_length": 6,
    "min_samples_per_task": 2,
    "max_samples_per_task": 2,
    "compound_taskid_set": ["origin_date", "location"]
}
```

The table below has one unique compound modeling task (shown with the `compound_idx` column value) and two unique sample draws. Each sample represents a grouped collection of possible values for all four variants across both prediction horizons.

> <div class="heatMap3">

Author: hmm, this also isn't working. Any other suggestions?

> <div class="heatMap3">

Reviewer: I'm looking at the preview now, and it looks correct (if you mean to highlight each sample, which is what I think you meant to do).

> <div class="heatMap3">

Author: Ah, it looks like it just hadn't updated yet on my end. I can see the changes now!

To put it another way, samples can only describe "coarser" compound modeling tasks than those defined using the `compound_taskid_set` field. This is why all example submissions in the first row of the table pass validation, yet Example Submission A fails validation when the `compound_taskid_set` does not contain all four task id variables.

```{caution}
**Derived task-ids** are a type of task-ids whose values depend wholly on that of other task-id variables. A common example is the `target_end_date` task-id, which tends to be derived from the combination of the `reference_date` (or `origin_date`) and `horizon` task-ids.

These derived task-ids must be properly configured, or they can cause problems when validating compound modeling tasks by throwing erroneous errors. *If **all** the task-id variables a derived task-id is derived from are part of the `compound_task_id_set`, then that derived task-id must also be a part of the `compound_task_id_set`; otherwise, that derived task-id should be excluded.*
```

### Number of samples vs. `output_type_id`

> The number of samples per individual modeling task in the above examples can always be determined by the number of times that each unique combination of task-id variables (i.e., each individual modeling task) appears in the submission. For Submissions A, B, C, and D above, even though the number of unique values of `output_type_id` changes, all examples have two samples per individual modeling task since each task-id-set appears exactly twice in the provided data.

Reviewer: I would add a parenthesis at the very end : "(i.e., a unique combination of "origin_date", "location", "horizon", "variant").

- Both Submissions B and D would pass validation since when the data are grouped by the `"compound_taskid_set"` variables you can always find a group of rows that have the same `output_type_id`.
- Submissions A and C would fail validation since when the data are grouped by the `"compound_taskid_set"` variables, there would be no rows that share an `output_type_id`.

To put it another way, samples can only describe "coarser" compound modeling tasks than those defined using the `compound_taskid_set` field. This is why all example submissions in the first row of the table pass validation, yet Example Submission A fails validation when the `compound_taskid_set` does not contain all four task ID variables.

```{caution}
**Derived task IDs** are a type of task IDs whose values depend wholly on that of other task ID variables. A common example is the `target_end_date` task ID, which tends to be derived from the combination of the `reference_date` (or `origin_date`) and `horizon` task IDs.

> These derived task IDs must be properly configured, or they can cause problems when validating compound modeling tasks by throwing erroneous errors. *If **all** the task ID variables a derived task ID is derived from are part of the `compound_taskid_set`, then that derived task ID must also be a part of the `compound_taskid_set`; otherwise, that derived task ID should be excluded.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These derived task IDs must be properly configured, or they can cause problems when validating compound modeling tasks by throwing errors when they should not. *If **all** the task ID variables a derived task ID is derived from are part of the `compound_taskid_set`, then that derived task ID must also be a part of the `compound_taskid_set`; otherwise, that derived task ID should be excluded.*
```
